.TH BONSAI 1 "January 2026" "bonsai 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bonsai \- A minimalist OpenBSD setup tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bonsai.pl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bonsai
is a setup tool designed to configure a minimalistic OpenBSD desktop environment.
It configures window managers, shells, browsers, theming, and essential applications
following the suckless philosophy.
.PP
Configuration is stored in \fI~/.config/bonsai/config.conf\fR and can be customized
either by editing the file directly or using interactive mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Display what would be done without making changes. Useful for previewing
the setup process before committing.
.TP
.B \-\-interactive
Run in interactive mode, prompting for each configuration option.
Selections are saved to the config file.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Generate or update the config file only, without running the setup.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-man
Display this manual page and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file supports the following options:
.TP
.B window_manager
Window manager to configure (cwm, spectrwm, i3, dwm, bspwm, openbox).
Default: cwm
.TP
.B shell
Shell to install and set as default (ksh, fish, zsh, bash).
Default: ksh
.TP
.B browser
Web browser to install (firefox, librewolf, chromium, lynx).
Default: firefox
.TP
.B theme
Color theme for terminals (nord, gruvbox, dracula).
Default: nord
.TP
.B xorg_resolution
Display resolution for Xorg.
Default: 1920x1080
.TP
.B xorg_brightness
Screen brightness percentage (0\-100).
Default: 80
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/bonsai/config.conf
User configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.xinitrc
Generated X initialization script.
.TP
.I ~/.xsession
Generated X session script for xenodm.
.TP
.I ~/.Xresources
X resources with theme colors and font settings.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run setup with default or saved configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
bonsai.pl
.fi
.RE
.PP
Preview changes without applying them:
.PP
.RS
.nf
bonsai.pl \-\-dry\-run
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run interactive setup:
.PP
.RS
.nf
bonsai.pl \-\-interactive
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cwm (1),
.BR pkg_add (1),
.BR startx (1),
.BR xenodm (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Created by the bonsai project.
.br
https://github.com/raffaelschneider/bonsai
